{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.18362}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 ELEVATOR PITCH\par
Healer focuses on providing a concise knowhow to eating disorders, care and motivation to the affected ones and the ones pursuing the path of recovery.\par
Healer focuses on providing a concise knowhow to eating disorders, care and motivation to the affected ones and the ones pursuing the path of recovery through visual/auditory content.\par
INSPIRATION\par
We recently saw a viral video of a Muslim girl convincing people with eating disorders to eat with her as she was taking bites from her food and the victims of these disorders recorded themselves while eating along with that girl. This extremely emotional but warm video made us realise the importance of motivation and inspiration in the fight of these patients against these illnesses and we ended up developing Healer, a platfrom for healing and support for these individuals alongside their therapies and family based-treatment.\par
WHAT IT DOES\par
Whether the user is affected with any disorder or has a loved one who has, Healer is developed to provide them with the basic information of main eating disorders; their causes, symptoms and treatment, motivation through video/audio/pictoral content, success stories, healthy lifestyle and how to make recovery possible.\par
\par
\par
WELCOME TO HEALER!\par
Healer is the first ever online platform in Pakistan dedicated to serve the individuals affected by eating disorders with support, care and motivation they need in the path of recovery. \par
Eating disorders are serious but treatable mental and physical illnesses that can affect people of all genders, ages, races, religions, ethnicities, body shapes and weights. They are widely misunderstood illnesses and support options are often inaccessible, especially in Pakistan. As a result, too many people are left feeling helpless, hopeless, and frightened. Healer's services are here to help raise awareness, induce healthy lifestyle and motivate you or your loved ones suffering from these disorders through the journey of healing. We know that the path to recovery is hard and first steps are always the hardest. That's okay. Healer cares for you and will always be by your side when taking baby steps towards your recovery. Join our hands to seek hope, together!\par
Recovery is possible and Healer believes that you can do it!\par
So, shall we begin our journey?\par
ABOUT EATING DISORDERS\par
WHAT ARE EATING DISORDERS?\par
Eating disorders (EDs) are mental and physical illnesses in which the people experience severe disturbances in their eating behaviors and related thoughts and emotions. These disturbances involve inadequate or excessive intake of food which ultimately results in damage of one's entire body functionality. Eating disorder issues can develop during any stage in life but typically appear during the teen years or young adulthood. Although these illnesses are treatable, the symptoms and consequences can be detrimental and deadly if not addressed properly. Eating disorders commonly coexist with other conditions, such as psychiatric disorders like anxiety, panic, obsessive compulsive disorder, drug abuse problems, or depression.\par
CAUSES\par
EDs are complex disorders, influenced by a facet of factors. Though the exact cause of eating disorders is unknown, it is generally believed that a combination of biological, psychological, or environmental abnormalities contribute to the development of these illnesses.\par
Normally emotional people and the ones with psychological problems develop these disorders. People with lack of confidence and low self-esteem can also suffer from an eating disorder. Abnormal relationships also contribute to these diseases.\par
These disorders are also caused genetically and transfer from generation to generation. Furthermore, people who remain in tension, stress, and depression may also face an eating disorder.\par
They are also caused by peer pressure and nowadays social media influence is also one of the main causes of eating disorders. People tend to attain figures like celebrities and end up being a victim of these illnesses.\par
TYPES OF EATING DISORDERS:\par
The most common types of eating disorders are Anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa and binge-eating disorder.\par
ANOREXIA NERVOSA\par
Anorexia nervosa is ten times as common in females as in males. People with anorexia often find that they do not allow themselves to feel full after eating. This means that they restrict the amount they eat and drink. People with anorexia are underweight and sometimes, the weight becomes so low that it is dangerous to health.\par
SYMPTOMS:\par
The symptoms of anorexia include delibrate weight loss and an unrealistic image of one's own body size. \par
People with anorexia tend to lose weight by cutting off all the foods containing fats and carbohydrates from their meals. They limit the amount they intake to attain the desired body figure. The sufferers of anorexia usually weigh below 15% or less than 15% of the expected weight for thier age and height. These individuals have a severe phobia of gaining weight. Even though others think of them as frail and underweight, they deny this fact and continue to lose more weight. \par
its common for poeple with anorexia to vomit secretly after eating and not to be truthful about how much they eat. The symptoms that may develop over time, as the body goes into starvation are:\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Osteopenia or osteoporosis (thinning of the bones) through loss of calcium\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Hair/nails become brittle\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Skin dries and can take on a yellowish cast\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Menstrual periods cease\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Mild anemia\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Severe constipation\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Drop in blood pressure, slowed breathing and pulse rates\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Internal body temperature falls, causing person to feel cold all the time\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Depression and lethargy\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 BULIMIA NERVOSA\par
Bulimia nervosa is an eating disorder characterised by repeated episodes of uncontrolled overeating followed by compensatory weight loss behaviours. Although people with bulimia may frequently diet and vigorously exercise, individuals with bulimia nervosa can be slightly underweight, normal weight, overweight or even obese. They often consume thousands of calories that are high in sugars, carbohydrates and fat in a very short period of time. Individuals with this disorder lose control over eating and after binge eating, due to the fear of weight gain, often throw up or use laxatives and this cycle goes on.\par
SYMPTOMS:\par
People with bulimia do not like to sit with others while eating so that others might not know about their binge eating habits. They usually vomit out everything they eat after realising how many calories they have consumed.\par
Other common symptoms include:\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Chronically inflamed and sore throat\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Swelling of salivary glands, cheeks and face, causing sufferers to develop a \ldblquote chipmunk\rdblquote  looking face\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Constant vomiting causes gastroesophageal reflux disorder\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Tooth enamel wears off and teeth begin to decay from exposure to stomach acids\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Laxative abuse causes irritation, leading to intestinal problems\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Diuretics (water pills) cause kidney problems\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Severe dehydration from purging of fluids\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 BINGE EATING/STRESS EATING DISORDER\par
People with binge eating disorder have frequent episodes of comsuming a large amount of food within a shiort period of time. The difference between this illness and bulimis is that the individuals don't throw up or get rid of the food they consumed by other means. Binge eating is chronic and can lead to serious health complications.\par
SYMPTOMS:\par
Binge eating disorder involves frequent consuming of unusually large amounts of food and feeling unable to stop eating. People with this disease may feel embarrassed about overeating and vow to stop. But they feel such a compulsion that they can't resist the urges and continue binge eating.\par
It includes:\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Eating more rapidly than normal\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Eating until feeling uncomfortably full\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Eating large amounts of food when not feeling physically hungry\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Eating alone because of feeling embarrassed by how much one is eating\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Feeling disgusted with oneself, depressed or very guilty afterward\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
}
 